






Document: WM-078                                                 P. Webb
Category: Life                                                2025-12-23

              Planning and implementing the Neue Internet

Abstract

   Accidentally discovering that my disparate ideas have a unified theme

Body

   It appears that what I've been obsessed with for several years, the
   idea of a "Neue Internet," is what I've been unintentionally building
   towards. High-level: social network, domain registry/registrar,
   payments, code hosting, video, operating systems, and hardware. In
   other words, if the internet was invented in 2026, what would it look
   like? What's the infrastructure?

   Ideas are free, so I have no problem sharing them (especially when I
   already have the best domains for them, hehe). Execution
   is everything.

   With that said, here's what I envision:

   1. Payments

      The RFC (7231)[1] for the HTTP 402 "Payment Required" code was
      "published" June 2014, more than a decade ago at the time of this
      writing. The word published is in quotes because the section for
      it just says "The 402 (Payment Required) status code is reserved
      for future use" (it was introduced in January 1997 in
      RFC 2068[2]). Cloudflare and Coinbase recently teamed up to
      release primitives for HTTP 402 based on crypto coins called x402.
      Bitcoin (Lightning) also has a version of this called L402.
      There's an opportunity for someone to abstract these into a single
      API to make accepting payments easy; kinda like the crypto version
      of Stripe (without the hidden requirement/mandate that one is
      forced to use hosted iframes to process money; this is for PCI
      compliance, lest you wish to fill out a 100+ page document that
      absolves them of any fraudulent activity occurring from you using
      their raw API instead).

      This project will live at `neue.cash`.

   2. Social (Part I)

      Back in 2016 I became increasingly aware of social media making
      people angry and irritable. With hindsight, we know that other
      countries were intentionally sowing discord amongst us and
      profiting from it (fear and anger is fantastic for engagement and
      increased engagement = money). Cool. This was also the era where
      news outlets couldn't get enough of the term "filter bubble" and I
      decided that maybe filter bubbles are good. After all, I prefer to
      talk to a large handful of people across different spaces...when
      there's too many voices, things tend to get ugly; that's when I
      discovered Dunbar's Number. In essence, a guy surmised that most
      people only ever truly know roughly 150 people in their lifetime.
      What if you had a social media platform where every group had a
      150 person limit? They'd essentially be a bunch of self-contained
      forums. I took that idea, added Myspace's top friends feature, and
      started prototyping my social network. I had a decent beta but I
      eventually realized that REST fucking sucks for relational data
      retrieval so I shut it down while I learned GraphQL and start over
      from scratch. I got distracted by a blockchain project for half a
      decade and by the time I got back my social media platform,
      Bluesky and Mastodon existed. I lost steam to work on a closed
      platform while these open platforms were doing a decent job.

      This project lived at `socii.network`.

   3. Identity

      My blockchain distraction was a DNS alt-root that launched late
      2019. 15 years earlier, I was a high-school kid who frequently
      skipped lunch to do research on the library computers (and
      participate in DJing, music production, and Megaman Battle Network
      forums). A random Ask Jeeves moment led to discovering what a TLD
      was, ICANN, and the price to apply for a new TLD. I filed this
      information in the back of my mind as a future dream. Well,
      Handshake (the blockchain project) was the realization of a dream
      I thought I'd never get the chance of achieving; creating TLDs and
      building infrastructure for people to build cool shit and host
      sites on dope domains!

      I'm aware just how nerdy that sounds, and you're right to assume I
      didn't get laid in high-school.

      My time working on Handshake projects ended due to infighting,
      greed, and more infighting. I sold my TLD portfolio, open sourced
      code, and archived plenty of blog posts to help future builders. I
      got so close to that dream and I refuse to let it die, so I'm
      working on a better implementation, IMHO, called "Dap." It
      addresses the primary technical complaints of Handshake (pre-mine
      and squatters), increases security (Blake3 Proof-of-Work), and
      massively reduces energy consumption compared to most blockchains
      (Verifiable Delay and Verifiable Random Functions). You want and
      need a solid foundation for the Neue Internet, after all.

      This project lives at `dap.sh`.

   4. Code Hosting

      Github is owned by Microsoft and Microsoft supports AI replacing
      humans, ICE, and war criminals. It's not difficult to understand
      why I'd want an alternative. Even before Microsoft spent a $7.5
      billion on acquiring Github, I dabbled in self-hosting my code and
      using other services. I don't like any of them. Bitbucket is a
      joke, Radicle is cool af but confusing (how tf do you do private
      repos?), RhodeCode is old, cgit is too limited, Gitlab is too
      bulky and power-hungry, Gitea is difficult to customize, and the
      rest of them are just Github clones with lackluster design. For
      me, simply being an alternative isn't enough.

      I mocked up a repo UI in SvelteKit and refined it over a few
      weeks. I'm pleased with the design direction and the new
      terminology I created for this next-generation code forge. Looking
      forward to getting it into production so I can move my code to it
      and keep Github as my bookmark manager for useful repos.

      This project will live at `eol.sh`.

   5. Video (Social, Part II)

      Man, video is hard. Especially when THE place to upload video is a
      Google product; YouTube. Ugh.

      I love YouTube, I use it literally every day. Am I logged in?
      Absolutely not. I'm only logged into Google for clients that use
      it and even then, I am only logged in using Brave browser. That's
      all I use said browser for. Thankfully, YouTube employs "shadow
      profiles," which essentially learns from my watch habits to
      algorithmically curate a selection of content to watch. I'm also
      subscribed to several creators via RSS (I'm surprised Google
      hasn't yoinked that capability out of YouTube yet).

      With that said, I felt gross about being logged in to Google while
      in my main browser and uploading my gaming clips. I dreaded doing
      it so much that I just wouldn't upload at all. Then I read a blog
      post on Hacker News where someone claimed they saved millions (or
      thousands, I forget) of dollars on video storage fees by using
      Cloudflare R2. That piqued my interest so I asked Claude how to
      programmatically use ffmpeg to create video playlists at varying
      resolutions. I turned that into an API, tested it on a few videos,
      and decided to make a new video platform.

      Competing with YouTube (and Google) is a waste of time; they throw
      away amounts of money that'd change my life, on an hourly basis.
      Nah, a free platform is not sustainable, ESPECIALLY if it's
      involving video. I think I have a winning solution:
      subscription-based video platform where videos are capped at 5
      seconds or 5 minutes. Supporters can tip Creators, Creators take
      home 85% (highest in the industry), everyone's happy. I'm spending
      2026 proving my thesis that this can become profitable. I'm also
      taking some of my favorite ideas from my social network and
      applying them here.

      This project lives at `nickel.video`.

   6. OS & Hardware

      "Liquid Ass" is what people are calling Apple's Windows Vista
      moment. Embarrassing. The guy who led the ass design just left to
      work at Facebook. Microsoft literally puts ads into Windows and is
      increasingly antagonistic with their customers. An aggressive
      operating system is crazy in this age of AI. Good grief. Oh, and
      Apple is also experimenting with ads in the OS. I've long resisted
      uttering the phrase, "This wouldn't happen if Steve Jobs was still
      alive," but man, it's true. The Apple I fell in love with had
      taste and poise (mostly). I will say that Apple _hardware_ is
      fucking phenomenal, no one has them beat on that front (I did send
      back my year-old M2 Mac Studio because my M1 MacBook Pro is still
      chugging along quite well).

      Meanwhile, Linux is having a **fantastic** year. Framework and MNT
      Reform laptops are beloved and Valve's upcoming gaming PC is an
      internet darling. I think they proven that modular computing can
      and will be profitable. This is the best time for Apple to
      resurrect the Jonathan Computer, a modular marvel envisioned under
      their roof in the mid-1980s. Current leadership would never do it
      (I believe Phil Schiller would entertain the idea), so I intend to
      sherlock them...in about 30 years or less. Hardware is hard and
      what I lack in resources and recourse, I make up for in vision and
      sheer force of will.

      The "desktop" paradigm we've used since modern computing's
      inception is tired. We compute on several devices with differing
      form factors daily, either for work or leisure. We also interface
      with remote systems and generate so much data, most of which is
      governed on such systems. Technology has advanced enough for
      local-first software to be the norm, not some niche feature for
      nerds. "Oh noes, people will be confused, we have to save them
      from themselves!!" Treat people with respect and teach them. If
      you can't/won't do that, move aside. Better yet, close this tab
      and angrily talk about me to your friend group, I need my legend
      to grow.

      The project lives at `systemsoft.works`.

   I left out email and messaging and that's because I don't yet have a
   compelling vision for either. I think JMAP is a solid improvement
   over IMAP but also feel like it could be better. For messaging, I
   just want a modern cross-platform Miranda IM. Or better yet, why not
   combine the two? Email is just long-form messaging, right? A nicely
   designed Delta Chat client would probably be enough for me tbh.

   Most of my ideas start within the confines of legacy constraints
   until I realize (or remember) that innovation lives _outside_ the
   confines of existing infrastructures and norms. You don't need
   permission to change the world, you can just...do it. Impossible is
   not a word, it's an excuse. 🕸️

References

   [1] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-6.5.2>
   [2] <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2068#section-10.4.3>
